
## About this project

This is a collection of algorithms used to generate maps from motifs which are 
vertices with a given degree and a constraint on each of its edges. Each motif 
corresponds to an atom or a small group of atoms and the maps obtained to a molecule, with correct
interaction between the motifs but no geometry information.

We have published a paper describing the modeling and the algorithms used in this code:
[https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.06610](https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.06610)


Families of graph generated by this code are presented at [http://kekule.prism.uvsq.fr/](http://kekule.prism.uvsq.fr/)




<!-- HOW TO BUILD -->
## How to build this code

The code is in C and requires any C compiler such as GCC or CLANG.
It can be compiled by typing make in your terminal, provided you have make installed.


## The .mot files

A .mot file describes the motifs you want to use to generates maps.
They are ASCII files with the following simple structure:

* On the first line, there are two integers, the first one is the number of motifs and the second is any value (it is a legacy option, not in use anymore).
* Each line describes one motif as a sequence of integers.  The first one is an identifier, typically 
 a position in the alphabet (motif I is 9). The second one is the degree of the motif. Then, the labels or colors of the edges are given in order. To represent the complementary of the color given by the integer n, we use -n.  


<!-- HOW TO USE -->
## How to use this program

To use this program, you need to have compiled it. If you have done it through the makefile,
you obtain the executable file `kekule`. You also need a name.mot file. 
To generate the maps of size n from motifs in name.mot type 
```./kekule name.mot n```

The results will be written in the Results directory, in a subdirectory named from your name.mot file.

Alternatively, many experiments are included in the makefile. 
For instance, if you type make IVV, you compile the program and run the generation for several sizes of maps built from the motifs IVV.

<!-- HOW TO CONFIGURE -->
## How to configure this program

The different options are provided in the parameters.h file.
They can be changed by choosing values for several constants defined in parameters.h, the main ones being.

* BACKBONETYPE: 0 for generating tree, 1 for generating path, 2 for generating cycle
* FOLDSTEP: 0 for generating backbone only, 1 to do the folding of the backbone
* ALMOSTFOLDABLE: 0 for generating all paths, 1 for generating the almost foldable only
* NBMAXNODESINAVL: Maximum number of generated element. To avoid saturating your memory. 
* NBFILEMAX: Maximum number of files written in the Results directory. Avoid trashing your drive.

After changing a constant, you need to recompile the program.

## Extensions

There a several experimental features in the code such as the possibility of using motifs made from
two simpler motifs (MetaMotif). We also have a more recent unpublished version with several performance improvements. If you need any information about this program or its extensions, please contact an author.


<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Yann Strozecki -  yann.strozecki@uvsq.fr

